In the grimy gray city,

leaders full of vanity,

workers used without pity.

a mass with loss of sanity.


A society built on the foundation -

of oxymorons. Sure to cause rebellion.

Thus, the Party employs vaporization,

the occurrences have a clear connotation.


"Fall in line or you will disappear."

Left with no choice but to cheer,

the people live in constant fear,

never knowing who might hear.


Telescreens adorn every wall,

Big Brother sees and hears all,

making the individual feel small,

the distance between death is but a call.


Every day two minutes of hate,

Goldstein spouts his ridiculous debate.

Terror, anger, and mania form an immense weight,

the prison of emotions creates a savior state.


In the midst of the mindless mass,

a curious mind from the middle class,

has complete faith in the lower class,

and dives through the looking glass.


In a contraband diary thoughts are transcribed,

an inescapable fate has been circumscribed.

The deep philosophy of the pages is connived,

a rooted hatred for Big Brother is described.


One day, a love kindles with fiery intent,

both bodies submit to hasty consent.

Secret meetings are arranged, though not frequent,

overt proponents of living in the present.


Lost in a deep, warm, embrace,

the primal rebellion of the human race.

Against an enemy too powerful to face,

Infinite care to leave no trace.


An induction into a secret Brotherhood,

a solemn promise for the greater good.

Even knowing the absolute likelihood,

an agreement to do whatever they could.


A copy of the holy book is received,

carefully crafted lies become believed.

A spark of hope has been officially decreed,

an unknown number of thinkers deceived.


The inevitable catches up to the present,

Thought Police enter the room without consent.

A pair of minds, entwined, punished for their dissent,

their future is filled with toil and torment.


Separated, the minds are powerless.

Subjugated to a torture of flawless -

precision, a body rendered motionless,

a mind wrangled to be confession-less.


A momentous betrayal has been revealed,

terrible secrets the Party long concealed.

Ultimate power that it so firmly wields,

the ability to leave nothing unconcealed.


In the fabled room 101 resides a great fright,

more horrifying than all the creatures of the night.

Many furry little rodents with a nasty bite,

a second betrayal is made to end the blight.


Satisfaction warrants a release,

the last man to achieve inner peace.

Now able to see the masterpiece,

a victory causes war to cease.


He loved Big Brother.